---
editor_options: 
  markdown: 
    wrap: 72
---

### **What does this all mean?**

The G3/G4 score is essentially a scaled score reflecting a ratio between
two transcriptional metagenes one for a "Group3" transcriptional pattern
and the other a "Group4" transcriptional pattern. This creates a score
whereby a higher number indicates a more archetypally "Group3"
expression profile. Each patient can be placed somewhere on this
continuum and generally higher G3/G4 score indicates a poorer survival,
accepting that other risk modifiers (e.g. MYC amplification, presence of
metastases, etc) will also alter risk.

As illustrations we provide a cumulative frequency plot to allow you to
place your G3/G4 scores within the context of the distribution of G3/G4
scores described in the original publication. Green and yellow shading
indicates whether a sample sould be considered as primarily Group4
(G3/G4\<0.5) or Group3 (G3/G4\>0.5) the percentile is given also as an
indication of how many other samples have been described with the same
G3/G4 score. A plot of predicted average 5-year survival with 95%CI vs
G3/G4 score is also given this is based upon Cox regression models as
calculated in the original publication. This reflects average survival
(irresepctive of other risk factors) within the retrospective cohort
used in the original publication. A further illustration stratified by
age is also provided.

All of the above is more fully explained in the original publication
*Medulloblastoma group 3 and 4 tumors comprise a clinically and
biologically significant expression continuum reflecting human
cerebellar development. Williamson et al (2022) Cell Reports 40:111162*,
which can be found [here](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.celrep.2022.111162).
Please also remember that any prediction of survival risk is based on
the retrospective cohort described in the original publication and is
provided here as a purely academic exercise i.e. for research purposes
only and should not in any circumstances used in a "real-world" clinical
context.
